---
# Nessus
### 2022-12-13

---

### Nessus

#### The Nessus vulnerability scanner is just what it seems like it would be. A scanner for potential vulnerabilities!

* Essentially,  finds and reports vulnerabilities by using methods like to those used by Nmap, which are then displayed in an attractive graphical user interface for us to examine.
* Nessus is distinct among other scanners in that it does not make any assumptions when it is scanning. In example, it does not presume that a web application is operating on port 80.

#### Steps 

* Following the activation of your code, you will be required to download the Nessus-##.##.#-debian6 amd64.deb file.

* You should save it in the Downloads folder on your computer.

##### The following command will be executed on the terminal when we have navigated to the appropriate folder:

sudo dpkg -i package file.deb

* It is important to make sure that you substitute package file.deb with the name of the file that you downloaded.

* Launch Mozilla Firefox and go to the following web address:

https://localhost:8834/

 ##### You could get a warning about a potential security risk.

* To access the Advanced... menu, click here. -> Acknowledge the Danger, But Carry On

* Following that, we will begin to set up the scanner.
Make your choice in the menu. Nessus Essentials

* After clicking the Skip button, we will be brought to a new page where we will be able to enter the code that was sent to us by Nessus in an email.


* Please enter your username and password in the appropriate areas. Make certain that you choose a robust password!

##### Nessus will now proceed to install the necessary plugins so that it may perform its functions.

* This will take some time, the exact amount of which will be determined on the speed of your internet connection and the capabilities of the hardware that is connected to your VM.

* If the progress bar does not seem to be moving throughout the installation process, this indicates that there is not enough space available on the VM to complete the installation.
