---
title: "Cables"
date: 2022-10-29
---
# Network Cables

### Copper termination standards

Eight-position RJ45 modular connectors utilize T568A and T568B color codes. ANSI/TIA/EIA wiring standards enable both. The only variation between the color codes is that orange and green pairings are switched.
BNC-T.

10BaseT/100BaseT utilize RJ-45 connectors. Thinnet (10Base2) connects workstations using BNC connections. BNC-T connects workstations to Thinnet coaxial cables. NIC card BNC(f) connection matches BNC-T(m) connector end. BNC(m) cables connected to BNC-T(f) connectors link to other computers. 10Base2 networks utilize BNC coaxial connectors.

BNC/Thinnet cable: 10Base2 network transmits electrical signals through BNC cable. 

RJ-45

Most 10BaseT and 100BaseT networks employ RJ-45 connectors. RJ-11 connections have 4 or 6 wires, whereas RJ-45 has 8. (4-pairs). RJ-45 connectors include 8 pins and 4 pairs of wires. UTP cables with RJ-45 connections link the home computer's NIC card to the DSL broadband modem. 8-contact RJ-45 connectors. Most 10BaseT and 100BaseT networks employ RJ-45 connectors. Serial port RS-232. T1 lines utilize RJ-48C 8-pin jacks. Pins 1, 2, 4, and 5 send and receive data, while pins 7 and 8 maintain cable shield integrity. No pins 3 and 6.

RJ-11 (Registered Jack) phone connections are tiny plastic.
Twisted-pair cabling uses RJ-45 connections. TIA/RS-232 EIA's standard for serial transfer between computers and peripherals
RJ-48C is a popular CSU/DSU connection.

RJ-11 plug

4-pin and 6-pin Firewire connections are common. A 6-pin connection supplies dc-power to the connected device, whereas a 4-pin connector does not.

RG-59 coaxial cable connects low-power video and RF signals. For short connections, such as sending video signals from a central receiver to several displays in a building.

RG-6 Used by local cable providers to link houses to their distribution network. RG-6 cable is 75 Ohms. Cable television (CATV) distribution coax is the most well-known kind of RG-6. This thin, bendable coax wire is still used to transmit cable TV signals. Used for long-distance cable TV and broadband Internet service. For cable TV and modems.

UTP cables are unshielded. The cable's twisted pairs eliminate electromagnetic interference. 

STP cables decrease electrical noise and electromagnetic radiation. They stabilize the signal and decrease interference.

Coaxial

Coaxial wires transport TV signals and link video devices. They block electromagnetic interference, enabling low-power transmissions to go further. They have a central bayonet wire conductor covered in a dielectric or non-conducting insulator surrounding by mesh or metal. A thin plastic covering protects these components.


They convey infrared (IR) control signals, reducing the requirement for an IR network. Coax, one of the initial Ethernet network cables, is no longer used.

Fiber

ST connectors: These connections use an exposed plastic tube for the optical fiber. This needs a connector that matches a cable on the opposite side. These reliable spring-loaded twists resemble BNC connections. ST connectors are common in LANs and CCTV systems.

SC-Connection: Caps protect eyes from laser light in fiber-optic networking. The transmit-receive connectors are commonly clipped together. connections hide the fiber ferrule. The closest commercial counterpart of SC connections slink without joining cables. Snap-on connections click into their jacks instead. Push-pull SC connections may be utilized for simplex or multiplex applications.

FC connections, like ST connectors, screw into their matching jacks. The optical fiber tube is usually covered with ceramic or metal. The connector's inner ring is keyed to match its jack. Phones, instruments, and high-speed communication lines employ FC connectors with single-mode fibers. Threaded connections make it better for high-vibration situations than ST connectors.

 LC cables clasp and release into jacks like Ethernet connections. Although smaller than SC connections, they are durable and cost-effective. The cable connection is bonded instead of snapped or thermoformed. It is a common field connection. Due to its SFF optical transmitter/receiver configuration, LC connections are becoming more common in private and public networks.

SMF cable has more bandwidth and longer range than multimode fiber (MMF). SMF is excellent for long-distance backbone connections because to its minimal signal loss and tiny core and laser light source. SMF bends less easily. It costs more than MMF. MMF lights utilize LEDs. MMF's bigger core supports many signal routes. Since the bigger core permits several signal channels and suppression, MMF is employed over shorter distances (>2km). SMF costlier than MMF.


Plenum vs. PVC

Category 5e and Category 6 cable jackets are made of PVC. Burning this PVC jacket produces hazardous hydrochloric acid and dioxin. Teflon or FEP plenum cable burns less toxicly than PVC.

### Connectors
- RJ-45
Plastic RJ45 connectors are bigger than RJ11. UTP/STP connections use RJ45 connectors. It is positioned on the two sides of cables (CAT-5, CAT-6, etc.) and may link any two network devices, routers, switches, firewalls, etc. RJ45 terminates a cable. This links these network devices. RJ-45 Crimping tool is used.

- RJ-11
It connects modems and landlines. Its four slots and six pins prevent it from fitting into an RJ45 slot.
Adapters utilize these BNC Connectors. Terminator, T-connector, Barrel Connector.

- DB-9
DB-9 is an analog 9-pin D-sub minuscule (D-sub) connection plug and socket family for computer and communication equipment. Computer printer ports use DB25 connectors. Shock and vibration-resistant 25-pin d-subs link peripherals.

F-type 
A two-wire (signal and ground) coaxial cable connection for antennas and set-top boxes to TVs, VCRs, and DVDs. F connector cables carry analog NTSC TV signals and have threaded plugs. Threaded and unthreaded plugs suit threaded sockets.

Fiber
Single-mode, multi-mode, and polymeric optical fiber cables are utilized (POF). Transparent glass or plastic fibers that efficiently transmit light.

- LC
LC connectors are newer. The connection is half the size of the SC connector but otherwise identical.

- ST
Used for fiber using a bayonet plug. 

SC connections are single-mode or multi-mode. Cable jacket color identifies kind. Single-mode cables feature yellow or blue covers. Orange, bright green, or turquoise multi-mode fiber cables.

- APC
In applications with low Optical Return Loss (ORL), the APC is employed. We mean 0.0001% signal loss. An 8-degree cable termination angle makes the air gap diagonal and tightens connections.
UPC Ultra Physical Contact Connectors (UPC) polish the fiber PCC connection for better signaling and reduced loss.

SFP Optical Transceivers are hot-swappable, small media connections that allow rapid fiber access for networking hardware.

- GBIC
A gigabit interface converter (GBIC) transceiver transfers digital highs and lows to optical signals and back again. Fiber optic and Ethernet systems use the GBIC for high-speed networking.

- SFP+
Updated SFP+ supports 10Gbps speeds.

- QSFP
Another tiny, hot-swappable transceiver is QSFP. Ethernet, Fibre Channel, InfiniBand, and SONET/SDH data rates are supported.

- Fiber transceivers
Bidirectional transceivers transmit both directions on one fiber using two wavelengths.
duplex
These transceivers employ one strand to send data and the other to receive it.

### Endpoints

Block 66
66 blocks terminate 20–26 AWG insulated or 18–19 gauge skinned solid copper wire.

110-block
110 punch down block is a cross-connect block, terminating block, or network cable connecting block. It connects wires using metal pegs.

Patch panel
LAN patch panels are mounted hardware assemblies that connect and handle incoming and outgoing LAN connections. A patch panel organizes several wires for flexible connection to data center or access closet network devices.

Fiber distribution panel
Hardware to terminate fiber optic cable or store extra cable for cross connections helps organize fiber connections.

### Copper cable standards

Cat 3 An unshielded twisted pair (UTP) cable used for voice and data transmission in computer and telecommunication networks.

100 Mbps Cat 5 Ethernet cabling. Category 5 network wiring made installing and maintaining the home control system easy. Fast Ethernet and phone calls utilize Category 5 cable.

Cat 5e
Cat 5e cables look like Cat 5 cables but allow 1,000 Mbps or one gigabit per second data throughput.

Cat 6
Gigabit Ethernet-based computer networks employ Cat 6 twisted pair cables.

Cat 6a
Cat 6A performs at 500 MHz, double Cat 6.

Cat 7
A shielded twisted pair cable used in 1 Gbps Ethernet-based computer networks.

RG-6
RG-6 transmits cable and satellite signals for home and business installations at GHz levels.

Low-frequency communications use RG-59.


### Copper termination standards

TIA/EIA 568a
Crossover cables are used to directly link two hosts, such two PCs or two switches (similar devices). The top connector wire sequence is:

##### Pin 1: green/white stripe
##### Pin 2: Green.
##### Pin 3: orange/white stripe
##### Blue.
##### Blue/white stripe
##### Orange.
##### Pin 7: brown/white stripe
##### Pin 8: brown

568b
The RJ-45 line connecting a PC to a home network is a straight-through connection (dissimilar devices). The top connector wire sequence is:

##### Pin 1: orange/white stripe
##### Orange.
##### Pin 3: green/white stripe
##### Blue.
##### 5. Blue/white stripe
##### green
##### Pin 7: brown/white stripe
##### Pin 8: brown

crossover
Crossover cables link similar devices. By inverting the transmission and receiving pins at both ends, output from one computer becomes input to the other, and vice versa.

Straight-through
Ethernet cables with straight-through wires link both sides. Wire one will connect to pin position one in both connections, wire two to pin place two, etc.

### Ethernet deployment standards

100BaseT
100BASE-T is a network standard for 100 Mbps data transport.
Gigabit Ethernet is 1000BaseT. Gigabit copper connections use four pairs of Category 5 (Cat5) unshielded twisted pair (UTP) to deliver 1,000 Mbps.

1000BaseLX
1000BASE-LX, an IEEE 802.3 Clause 38 optical fiber Gigabit Ethernet standard, employs a long-wavelength laser (1,270–1,355 nm) with a maximum RMS spectral width of 4 nm.

1000BaseSX
1000BASE-SX is a fiber optic Gigabit Ethernet standard for multi-mode fiber employing 770 to 860 nanometer near infrared (NIR) light.

10GBaseT Ethernet signaling over twisted-pair cable provides rates over 1 Gbps for distances up to 100 meters. IEEE 802.3an supports 2.5 and 5 Gbps over Cat5e and Cat6 cable.
